waybar/README.md, before:

# Waybar: Elegant Vagrant

## Credits

This `waybar` configuration hasn't been done from scratch. The original work was done by Jesse Mirabel (@sejjy) at [sejjy/mechabar](https://github.com/sejjy/mechabar). Thank him for this awesome design.

## Changes

I've made many changes to the original theme, by tweaking the colors and rearranging many modules to different positions and by adding other custom modules not present in the original `mechabar`.

All the changes includes:

- Move distro, idle, clock and date modules to the top left, in this order.
- Remove `rofi` script to manage power, and made the distro haver-able, displaying the power buttons.
- Added a custom shell script to replace the original `media-player.py`.
- Added Pomodoro timer to the center.
- Added keyboard layout and submaps for Hyprland.
- Removed workspaces module, replaced with a client counter.
- Added task module to display `taskwarrior` or `org-mode` tasks.
- Added network module (upload and download speeds).
- Added [wttrbar](https://github.com/bjesus/wttrbar) module
- Tweaked the position of Bluetooth, WiFi, backlight and volume modules to the top right.

## Profiles

- **Default Mechabar:** Use `default-mechabar.jsonc`
    - Contains no workspaces, has pomodoro centered, and a client module to count open windows
- **Legacy Mechabar:** Use `legacy-mechabar.jsonc`
    - Contains workspaces, no client module and the pomodoro isn't centered

### Footages

<div align="center">
  <img src="https://git.disroot.org/aocoronel/images/raw/branch/main/elegantvagrant/2025-04-21-waybar-legacy.webp">
  <p>Waybar Legacy Profile</p>
  <img src="https://git.disroot.org/aocoronel/images/raw/branch/main/elegantvagrant/2025-04-21-waybar-default.webp">
  <p>Waybar Default Profile</p>
</div>

> [!NOTE]
> These images were taken from a NixOS system, thus the `arch-update` module isn't visible.

## Modules

| Module                      | Content                                               | Author     |
| --------------------------- | ----------------------------------------------------- | ---------- |
| `arch-linux.jsonc`          | Arch Linux Logo                                       | Augusto Coronel |
| `arch-update.jsonc`         | Arch Linux Updates (pacman, flatpak and AUR)          | sejjy      |
| `backlight.jsonc`           | Screen brightness meter                               | sejjy      |
| `battery.jsonc`             | Battery meter                                         | sejjy      |
| `bluetooth.jsonc`           | Bluetooth button and actions                          | sejjy      |
| `clock.jsonc`               | Current Time                                          | sejjy      |
| `cpu.jsonc`                 | CPU usage                                             | sejjy      |
| `cpuinfo.jsonc`             | Temperature meter                                     | sejjy      |
| `desktop.jsonc`             | Replace laptop module, with only WiFi module enabled  | Augusto Coronel |
| `hyprland-language.jsonc`   | Display current keyboard (Hyprland only)              | Augusto Coronel |
| `hyprland-submap.jsonc`     | Display Hyprland Submaps                              | Augusto Coronel |
| `hyprland-workspaces.jsonc` | Display workspaces (Hyprland only)                    | Augusto Coronel |
| `idle.jsonc`                | Button to toggle idle                                 | sejjy      |
| `keyboard.jsonc`            | Groups Hyprland Language and Submaps                  | Augusto Coronel |
| `laptop.jsonc`              | Groups Laptop Modules: backlight, battery...          | Augusto Coronel |
| `media.jsonc`               | Display current playing media                         | Augusto Coronel |
| `memory.jsonc`              | Memory usage                                          | sejjy      |
| `network.jsonc`             | Network speeds                                        | Augusto Coronel |
| `nixos.jsonc`               | NixOS Logo                                            | Augusto Coronel |
| `pomodoro.jsonc`            | Pomodoro counter                                      | Augusto Coronel |
| `power.jsonc`               | Groups all power commands (poweroff, reboot...)       | Augusto Coronel |
| `pulseaudio.jsonc`          | Volume meter                                          | sejjy      |
| `tasks.jsonc`               | Taskwarrior or Org-mode tasks                         | Augusto Coronel |
| `tray.jsonc`                | All applications that supports tray                   | Augusto Coronel |
| `weather.jsonc`             | Wttrbar module to display weather from wttr.in        | Augusto Coronel |
| `wifi.jsonc`                | Button to manage WiFi networks                        | sejjy      |
| `workspace-client.jsonc`    | Counts how many windows are open and their workspaces | Augusto Coronel |

## Plans

Although this theme is quit comprehensive in visuals and features, yet solid, I do still plan to make radical changes to the looks and rewrite all scripts used in this theme.

Commit message:

docs(waybar): Add links to pomodoro scripts

waybar/README.md, after:

# Waybar: Elegant Vagrant

## Credits

This `waybar` configuration hasn't been done from scratch. The original work was done by Jesse Mirabel (@sejjy) at [sejjy/mechabar](https://github.com/sejjy/mechabar). Thank him for this awesome design.

## Changes

I've made many changes to the original theme, by tweaking the colors and rearranging many modules to different positions and by adding other custom modules not present in the original `mechabar`.

All the changes includes:

- Move distro, idle, clock and date modules to the top left, in this order.
- Remove `rofi` script to manage power, and made the distro haver-able, displaying the power buttons.
- Added a custom shell script to replace the original `media-player.py`.
- Added Pomodoro timer to the center.
- Added keyboard layout and submaps for Hyprland.
- Removed workspaces module, replaced with a client counter.
- Added task module to display `taskwarrior` or `org-mode` tasks.
- Added network module (upload and download speeds).
- Added [wttrbar](https://github.com/bjesus/wttrbar) module
- Tweaked the position of Bluetooth, WiFi, backlight and volume modules to the top right.

## Profiles

- **Default Mechabar:** Use `default-mechabar.jsonc`
    - Contains no workspaces, has pomodoro centered, and a client module to count open windows
- **Legacy Mechabar:** Use `legacy-mechabar.jsonc`
    - Contains workspaces, no client module and the pomodoro isn't centered

### Footages

<div align="center">
  <img src="https://git.disroot.org/aocoronel/images/raw/branch/main/elegantvagrant/2025-04-21-waybar-legacy.webp">
  <p>Waybar Legacy Profile</p>
  <img src="https://git.disroot.org/aocoronel/images/raw/branch/main/elegantvagrant/2025-04-21-waybar-default.webp">
  <p>Waybar Default Profile</p>
</div>

> [!NOTE]
> These images were taken from a NixOS system, thus the `arch-update` module isn't visible.

## Modules

| Module                      | Content                                               | Author     |
| --------------------------- | ----------------------------------------------------- | ---------- |
| `arch-linux.jsonc`          | Arch Linux Logo                                       | Augusto Coronel |
| `arch-update.jsonc`         | Arch Linux Updates (pacman, flatpak and AUR)          | sejjy      |
| `backlight.jsonc`           | Screen brightness meter                               | sejjy      |
| `battery.jsonc`             | Battery meter                                         | sejjy      |
| `bluetooth.jsonc`           | Bluetooth button and actions                          | sejjy      |
| `clock.jsonc`               | Current Time                                          | sejjy      |
| `cpu.jsonc`                 | CPU usage                                             | sejjy      |
| `cpuinfo.jsonc`             | Temperature meter                                     | sejjy      |
| `desktop.jsonc`             | Replace laptop module, with only WiFi module enabled  | Augusto Coronel |
| `hyprland-language.jsonc`   | Display current keyboard (Hyprland only)              | Augusto Coronel |
| `hyprland-submap.jsonc`     | Display Hyprland Submaps                              | Augusto Coronel |
| `hyprland-workspaces.jsonc` | Display workspaces (Hyprland only)                    | Augusto Coronel |
| `idle.jsonc`                | Button to toggle idle                                 | sejjy      |
| `keyboard.jsonc`            | Groups Hyprland Language and Submaps                  | Augusto Coronel |
| `laptop.jsonc`              | Groups Laptop Modules: backlight, battery...          | Augusto Coronel |
| `media.jsonc`               | Display current playing media                         | Augusto Coronel |
| `memory.jsonc`              | Memory usage                                          | sejjy      |
| `network.jsonc`             | Network speeds                                        | Augusto Coronel |
| `nixos.jsonc`               | NixOS Logo                                            | Augusto Coronel |
| `pomodoro.jsonc`            | Pomodoro counter                                      | Augusto Coronel |
| `power.jsonc`               | Groups all power commands (poweroff, reboot...)       | Augusto Coronel |
| `pulseaudio.jsonc`          | Volume meter                                          | sejjy      |
| `tasks.jsonc`               | Taskwarrior or Org-mode tasks                         | Augusto Coronel |
| `tray.jsonc`                | All applications that supports tray                   | Augusto Coronel |
| `weather.jsonc`             | Wttrbar module to display weather from wttr.in        | Augusto Coronel |
| `wifi.jsonc`                | Button to manage WiFi networks                        | sejjy      |
| `workspace-client.jsonc`    | Counts how many windows are open and their workspaces | Augusto Coronel |

## Scripts

The pomodoro module requires a shell script, which can be found [here](https://github.com/aocoronel/dotfiles/blob/main/scripts/__pomodoro.sh). And also, the pomodoro can be controlled using rofi, [here](https://github.com/aocoronel/dotfiles/blob/main/scripts/__pomodoro-control.sh)

## Plans

Although this theme is quit comprehensive in visuals and features, yet solid, I do still plan to make radical changes to the looks and rewrite all scripts used in this theme.
